---
title: RuleChain Validator Aspect
article: false
author: 
  name: rulego
  link: https://github.com/rulego/rulego
date: 2023-10-22 00:13:56
permalink: /pages/validator-aspect/
---
# Rule Chain Initialization Validator

The Rule Chain Initialization Validator is an important component used to verify whether the structure and configuration of a rule chain comply with relevant rules before the rule chain is started. Below is a detailed introduction to the Rule Chain Initialization Validator.

## Function Overview

### Sub-Rule Chains Are Not Allowed to Create `Endpoint` Components

* **Validation Rule**: If a sub-rule chain (i.e., a rule chain with the `Root` attribute set to `false`) contains an `Endpoint` component, an error will be triggered.
* **Error Message**: `ErrNotAllowEndpointNode` indicates that sub-rule chains are not allowed to create `Endpoint` components.

### Cycle Detection

* **Validation Rule**: Nodes in the rule chain are not allowed to form cycles. If a cycle is detected, an error will be triggered. (The `config.allowCycle` switch controls whether cycles are allowed. The default is `false`, indicating that cycles are not allowed.)
* **Error Message**: `ErrCycleDetected` indicates that a cycle reference has been detected in the rule chain.

## Custom Validation Rules

### Creating Validation Functions

Users can create custom validation functions by defining functions with the following signature:

```go
func(config types.Config, def *types.RuleChain) error
```

Where:
* `config` is the configuration information of the rule chain.
* `def` is the definition of the rule chain.

### Registering Validation Rules

Use the `Rules.AddRule()` method to register custom validation functions with the rule validator. For example:

```go
Rules.AddRule(func(config types.Config, def *types.RuleChain) error {
    if def != nil && len(def.Metadata.Nodes) > 10 {
        return errors.New("the rule chain cannot contain more than 10 nodes")
    }
    return nil
})
```