---
title: Math Functions
date: 2024-01-15 10:07:00
permalink: /pages/streamsql-math-functions/
article: false
author: 
  name: StreamSQL
  link: https://github.com/rulego/streamsql
---

# StreamSQL Math Functions

Math functions are used for numerical calculations.

## Basic Math Functions

### ABS - Absolute Value Function
**Syntax**: `abs(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the absolute value of a number.  

### SQRT - Square Root Function
**Syntax**: `sqrt(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the square root of a number.  

### POWER - Power Function
**Syntax**: `power(base, exponent)`  
**Description**: Returns the base raised to the specified power.  
 
### CEILING - Ceiling Function
**Syntax**: `ceiling(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the smallest integer greater than or equal to the specified number.  

### FLOOR - Floor Function
**Syntax**: `floor(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the largest integer less than or equal to the specified number.  
 
### ROUND - Round Function
**Syntax**: `round(number, [precision])`  
**Description**: Rounds a number to the specified number of decimal places.  
 
### MOD - Modulo Function
**Syntax**: `mod(dividend, divisor)`  
**Description**: Returns the remainder of a division operation.  
 
### RAND - Random Function
**Syntax**: `rand()`  
**Description**: Returns a random number between 0 and 1.  

### SIGN - Sign Function
**Syntax**: `sign(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the sign of a number (-1, 0, or 1).  
 
## Trigonometric Functions

### SIN - Sine Function
**Syntax**: `sin(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the sine of an angle (in radians).  

### COS - Cosine Function
**Syntax**: `cos(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the cosine of an angle (in radians).  
 
### TAN - Tangent Function
**Syntax**: `tan(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the tangent of an angle (in radians).  
 
### ASIN - Arc Sine Function
**Syntax**: `asin(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the arc sine of a number (in radians).  
 
### ACOS - Arc Cosine Function
**Syntax**: `acos(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the arc cosine of a number (in radians).  
 
### ATAN - Arc Tangent Function
**Syntax**: `atan(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the arc tangent of a number (in radians).  
 
### ATAN2 - Two-Parameter Arc Tangent Function
**Syntax**: `atan2(y, x)`  
**Description**: Returns the arc tangent of y/x (in radians).  
 
## Hyperbolic Functions

### SINH - Hyperbolic Sine Function
**Syntax**: `sinh(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the hyperbolic sine of a number.  
 
### COSH - Hyperbolic Cosine Function
**Syntax**: `cosh(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the hyperbolic cosine of a number.  
 
### TANH - Hyperbolic Tangent Function
**Syntax**: `tanh(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the hyperbolic tangent of a number.  
 
## Logarithmic and Exponential Functions

### EXP - Exponential Function
**Syntax**: `exp(number)`  
**Description**: Returns e raised to the specified power.  
 
### LN - Natural Logarithm Function
**Syntax**: `ln(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the natural logarithm of a number.  
 
### LOG - Logarithm Function
**Syntax**: `log(base, number)`  
**Description**: Returns the logarithm with the specified base.  
 
### LOG10 - Common Logarithm Function
**Syntax**: `log10(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the common logarithm (base 10) of a number.  
 
### LOG2 - Binary Logarithm Function
**Syntax**: `log2(number)`  
**Description**: Returns the binary logarithm (base 2) of a number.  
 
## Bitwise Functions

### BIT_AND - Bitwise AND Function
**Syntax**: `bit_and(number1, number2)`  
**Description**: Performs bitwise AND operation on two integers.  
 
### BIT_OR - Bitwise OR Function
**Syntax**: `bit_or(number1, number2)`  
**Description**: Performs bitwise OR operation on two integers.  
 
### BIT_XOR - Bitwise XOR Function
**Syntax**: `bit_xor(number1, number2)`  
**Description**: Performs bitwise XOR operation on two integers.  
 
### BIT_NOT - Bitwise NOT Function
**Syntax**: `bit_not(number)`  
**Description**: Performs bitwise NOT operation on an integer.  
 
## 📚 Related Documentation

- [Aggregate Functions](/en/pages/streamsql-aggregate-functions/) - Learn detailed usage of aggregate functions
- [String Functions](/en/pages/streamsql-string-functions/) - Learn detailed usage of string functions
- [SQL Reference](/en/pages/streamsql-sql/) - View complete SQL syntax reference